So we worked on products and users,
it's now time to work on the cart and the cart items again and that will now change
now that we're using mongodb.
So let me start with the cart model, now what is, what's the overall goal we have here?
Well obviously for every user we have, we want to store a cart right and that user will have a cart and
that cart will then hold the products.
So actually with mongodb,
this is a great place for embedded documents because we have a strict one-to-one relation between a
user and a cart and therefore there is no need to manage this with a reference,
I could actually get rid of my cart items, my cart model so that I just have product and user
and for now, also the orders
and now on the user model, there I also want to store my cart items.
Now the question is how,
the answer is we get our shop.js controller and in there we got code to store something in a cart,
here for the user we got the cart and then we got the products to see what's in there, update it and then
save it back.
Now we can do that with the help of the user model.
Let's say on a user object, instead of just having save I also add a new method, add to cart, something
like this.
Now here add to cart would be a product I want to add to the cart of course,
essentially what we're doing here in shop.js already, here
we already fetch or we got everything we need to fetch a product which we could then add to the cart.
So I expect to get a product here which I can add and then in add to cart, I can have all the logic I need
to find out if that product is already inside of the cart and therefore if I just want to increase
the quantity or if it is not and therefore I want to add it for the first time. Now to understand how
this works you must not forget that add to cart will be called on a user object and we'll create that
object with data we fetched from the database with the help of find by ID, here we will return a user.
So therefore we just need to be able to accept more data in a constructor,
for example the cart so we can also store the cart in our javascript object here which will be based
on the data stored in the database.
So now we can assume that we'll have a cart property on our user and now we just need to find out if
that cart contains a certain product already.
Now the cart will essentially be an object let's say that looks something like this, an object with some
items, so an object which has the items array in there.
So what we could do if we assume that this is the case, we could create a new constant, cart product and
then use this cart items and find, let's say the index of a product in that cart with the same ID
as the product we're trying to add again.
So I'll pass a function to find index which simply is a function javascript will execute for every element
in the items array
and then here I want to return true if I found the right product in my items array and this will be the
case if cp which is the product in the items array,
if the _id there matches the _id of the product I'm trying to insert. If that is
the case,
so if this returns a valid index, so something else than minus one which would be the default otherwise,
then I know this product already exists in a cart and then I just need to find out what its quantity
is.
Now we'll do this a second step,
first of all we can assume that there will be no products in the cart because we're just starting from
scratch,
so let's add the code to add a product without checking whether that product exists yet,
so we can comment this out for now and instead create a constant, maybe named updated cart
which is an object where we might have an items property which is an array where I will now include my
product.
However not just the product as I'm getting here,
I also want to add a quantity field, so I'll actually say product quantity and this is how you can
add a field on the fly in javascript equals one. Now another approach, maybe a bit more elegant than
that is that in items, you create an object with curly braces because we'll add an object here and then
you use the javascript spread operator, three dots to pull out all properties of this object so of the
product object and then with a comma, you can add or overwrite a property,
so here I'll add the quantity property and set it to one.
Whatever approach you choose, this will create an object which holds an items property which is an array
of
in our case only one object, one product with an additional quantity information. And now I want to update
the user to store that cart in there,
so I will get access to my database with get db and I'll reach out to my users collection and I'll
update one user in there and I'll update the user with this user ID here,
so what I need to do is I need to accept that ID as an argument.
So this _id will be equal to ID let's say and then here I can say I want to find the user where
_id is equal to new and I'll use object ID which I extracted up here because I need that
for the comparison
where this is equal to this _id
and once I found that, I'll describe how to update and I'll use $set where I pass an object which
holds all the information about which field to update in which way.
And here I essentially want to keep everything as it is, I dont want to change the user name or anything
like that,
I'll just set cart equal to updated cart, that is it.
So cart which I expect to have in a user in the database will now receive updated cart,
so this object as a new value which will overwrite the old one and this is important,
it will not merge this with the old one, it will not merge the elements in the items array, it will simply
overwrite the old cart with the new cart.
Now I can return this here, this update one call and what this should do is well, it should update our user to
add a product to the cart,
for now it will always overwrite any existing products in the cart, we'll fix this later
but for now, this should work.
Now let's wire it up in the next lecture.